---
layout: post
title: "NIMA (Neural Image Assessment)"
categories: CNN
author: lee gunjun
---

# NIMA
----
**NIMA** is a image quality assessment neural net.

## *Key point* of **NIMA**
----
> - **NIMA** aim for predictions with higher correlation with human ratings, instead of classifying images to low/high score or regrssing to the mean score, **the distribution of ratings are predicted as a histogram.**
> - **NIMA** uses the squared *EMD(earth mover's distance)* loss


## Implementation Tips
----
> - distribution of ratings with mean value between 2 and 8 can be closely approximated by **Gaussian functions** <br>
> and highly skewed ratings can be modeled by **Gamma distributions**. <br>
> - **NIMA** uses EMD as loss function. <br>
> because, cross-entropy loss lacks the inter-class relationships between score buckets.<br>
> $EMD(p, \hat{p}) = ({1 \over x} sum_{k=1}^N |CDF_p (k) - CDF_{\hat{p} (k)}|)^{1 \over r}$<br>
> where $CDF_p (k)$ is a cumulative distribution function. <br>
> $CDF_p (k) = \sum_{i=1}^k p_{s_i}$


----

- **NIMA** explores a few different classifier architectures such as VGG16, Inception-v2, and MobileNet
- **NIMA** modifies the last layer of the baseline CNN with a fully-connected layer with 10 neurons followed by soft-max activations.
- Baseline CNN weights are initalized by training on the ImageNet dataset.
- in training, input images are rescaled to 256x256, and the a crop of size 224x224 is randomly extracted.
- **NIMA** alse tried training with random crops without rescaling.<br>
but results were not compelling.
- **NIMA** uses horizontal flipping of the image crops.
